developer.gimp.org
------------------

This CVS module holds the source for the developer.gimp.org website.
CVS commits to this module cause the website to be updated immidately.
So please do test all your changes locally before you commit them.  A
prerequisite for local tests is that you can build the website. This
file will try to teach you how to do that...

First of all some background information: The website is build using
DocBook XML. In particular we are using the WebSite doctype and
stylesheets. See http://docbook.sourceforge.net/projects/website/ for
more information on DocBook Website.

In order to create HTML pages from the XML sources, you will need a
working DocBook XML setup. The default Makefile uses xsltproc as the
XSLT processor. This is a fairly common tool that you probably have
installed already; see http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/xsltproc2.html. In
addition to the XSLT processor you need to have the DocBook DTDs and
stylesheets installed. And then, and that's often the problematic
part, you need an XML catalog (usually /etc/xml/catalog) that refers
the XSLT processors to the locally installed files. If that catalog is
missing or incomplete, xsltproc will try to download stylesheets
on-the-fly. This slows down processing considerably and since some
stylesheets are not always available online (mainly due to being
hosted on sourceforge) you should make sure that your catalog file is
complete.

Assuming your setup is complete, all you need to do is to type 'make'
in the toplevel directory. The HTML files are created in the source
tree (but should not be checked into CVS). We also put the XML files
online. This allows to show people how easy the source for the HTML
pages looks like and to allow them to provide patches on the XML
sources w/o checking the whole thing out of CVS.

The structure of the site is defined in the file layout.xml. Here the
hierarchy and relation of all pages is defined. If you want to add new
pages, start by adding a new tocentry here. Then, each XML file
corresponds to a HTML file in the generated site. We name the XML file
just like the HTML file in order to make our lifes easier. Please
stick to this rule if possible.

If you want to add images, especially screenshots, please use the PNG
format (or JPEG if appropriate). Please add binary files such as
images with the -kb option so that the CVS server knows that the files
are binary and shouldn't attempt to create diffs.

If you think there's info missing here, feel free to add it or send me
a mail with your questions. Before you do any commits to this CVS
module, please get in contact with me or write to the gimp-web
mailing-list. The only exception to this rule is an obvious build fix.
You are encouraged to not ask but simply do the fix then.


  Sven Neumann  <sven@gimp.org>
